# ASSESSMENT 5: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. What does calling super do in a Ruby class?   

Your answer:
Super call the variables from a parent class and pass them to the current class or the child.

Researched answer:
Ruby uses the super keyword to call the superclass implementation of the current method. Within the body of a method, calls to super acts just like a call to that original method. The search for a method body starts in the superclass of the object that was found to contain the original method

2. What is a gem?

Your answer:
Gems are prewritten code that typically have specific uses. As well as very easy to share

Researched answer:
A gem is a bunch of perfectly packaged Ruby code that gives you access to custom methods somebody else wrote. Gems just make the process of sharing code much easier. The custom methods inside of gems typically have specific functionalities

3. What is a relational database? Are there other kinds of databases?

Your answer:
RDBs are entities that store data thats all related across different DBs. Think SQL. While Non-relational DBs are DBs that dont need to be related to be stored together. Which are often thought to be easily scabale. Think MongoDB

Researched answer:
Standard relational databases enable users to manage predefined data relationships across multiple databases. Popular examples of standard relational databases include Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle Database, MySQL and IBM DB2.

4. What are primary keys? Why purpose does a primary key serve?

Your answer:
Are unique values that each object in the table or DB has. PKs are very similar to indexes in a list or array. There can only be 1 for 1

Researched answer:
A primary key is the column or columns that contain values that uniquely identify each row in a table. A primary key is needed: To extract or archive data from a table that is visited more than once during a process (for example, a child table that has two or more parent tables referenced in the Access Definition).

5. What are the five HTTP verbs? What is each verb's corresponding CRUD action?

Your answer:
GET(Retrieve), POST(Create), PATCH(Update), PUT(Update), DELETE(Delete).

Researched answer:
Retrieve an item (GET)
Create an item (POST)
Retrive/Update an item (PATCH)
Update an item (PUT)
Delete an item (DELETE)

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

1. Model validations:

Model validation refers to the process of confirming that the model actually achieves its intended purpose. In most situations, this will involve confirmation that the model is predictive under the conditions of its intended use.

2. RESTful routes:

A RESTful route is a route that provides a mapping of HTTP verbs ( get , post , put , patch , delete ) to the CRUD actions ( create , read , update, delete ) that are defined in our controllers

3. ERB:

ERB (or Ruby code generated by ERB) returns a string in the same character encoding as the input string. When the input string has a magic comment, however, it returns a string in the encoding specified by the magic comment.

4. Params:

By using the params keyword, you can specify a method parameter that takes a variable number of arguments. The parameter type must be a single-dimensional array. No additional parameters are permitted after the params keyword in a method declaration, and only one params keyword is permitted in a method declaration.

5. API:

API is the acronym for application programming interface — a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. APIs are an accessible way to extract and share data within and across organizations.
